.TH WEIGHBOR L "[20-May-98]" "Ver 1.0.0alpha"
.SH NAME
weighbor \- weighted neighbor joining
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B weighbor
[\-L
.I sequenceLength] 
[\-b
.I alphabetSize]
[\-i
.I fileName] 
[\-o 
.I fileName] 
[\-v[v[v]]] [\-V]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Weighbor 
takes an input file of pairwise distances in
.I Phylip
format and computes the phylogentic tree that best corresponds to
those distances. The output is this tree in 
lisp-like format. Currently the input is read from
.B stdin
and the output is written to 
.B stdout.
Note, several inputs can be sent to
.B weighbor
and it will process each in order and print the corresponding tree.
Additional information about about how the tree was build can be
output to a log file (currently
.B weighbor.out
). The amount of information written to the log file can be controlled.
.PP
These options are available:
.TP
.BI "\-L " sequenceLength
Sets the length of the sequences. Default is 500. This is the effective sequence 
length equal to the number of varying sites. 
Note if the 
.B
\-L
option is not used then the program will print a warning message to
stderr indicating that it is using this default length.
.TP
.BI "\-b " alphabetSize
Sets the size of the alphabet of characters (number of bases) 
.B b.
.B 1/b 
is equal to the probablity that there will be a match for
infinite evolution time. The default value for 
.B b
is 4.
.TP
.BI "\-i " fileName
Read input from the filename given. Default is to read from stdin.
.TP
.BI "\-o " fileName
Write output to the given file. Default is to write to stdout.
.TP
.B \-v
Turns on logging and creates the logfile
.I weighbor.out
The amount of information can be adjusted by using
.B \-v,
.B \-vv
or 
.B \-vvv
to get progressively more detailed information in the logfile. At
level one
.B (\-v)
the the logfile will contain the pair of taxa that was joined at each
iteration of the algorithm along with the taxon that was the next best
choice. Also printed is the p-value of this triplet.  
.TP
.B \-V
Print out the version number.
.SH DEVELOPMENT TEAM
W. Bruno
.IR <billb@t10.lanl.gov>
.PP
A. Halpern
.IR <halpern@ender.unm.edu>
.PP
N. D. Socci
.IR <nds@lucent.com>
